## Fall 2025 Class Notes

- Day 1
  - Gapminder

- Day 2
  - Started Westvaco case study
  - Did the simulation

- Day 3
  - Finished discussing the Westvaco case.  What are some counter arguments that the company can provide?
  - Start the case study on gender discrimination (pg 50 on our textbook)
  - Also, discussed the ethical issues in the paper of Emily and Greg experiment.

- Day 4
  - Start the case study on gender discrimination (pg 50 on our textbook).
  - Use `mosaic` package for the shuffle function
  - Add one shuffle to the data and use `with(mydata, table(pass, gender))` command to compute the pass rates for the two groups to motivate the idea.

- Day 5
  - Discussed the importance of the **exchangability** assumption.  
    - Are the two groups (Blacks and Whites) similar in every other aspect.  Are there any systematic differences between the groups?
    - Are the labels exchangable in the smoking and birthweigth study? Are there any sytematic differences between the groups?

  - Introduction to probability. -- Used Probability Rules! slides with binge drinking example.
  - Worksheet on the "spinning wheel"

- Day 6
  - Few adjustments adb tricks
  - How to determine 'independence' using the 'Titanic' data and then 'Breakfast' data.

- Day 7
  - Proof of conditional probability formula using the Titanic example.
  - Proof of $P(A and B) = \frac{P(A)}{P(B)}$
  - Intro to trees diagrams
    - Cancer example
    - Lie detector
    - Set up for HW with the Parking lot problem.








